Add session docs (#147)
pingcap/tidb-dev-guide: src/understand-tidb/session.md

# Session

> The `session` package (and related packages such as `sessionctx` and `variable`) are responsible for maintaining the state of both sessions and transactions.

Author: I've changed it to `sessionctx/variable`.

Yes, a transaction belongs to a session. Various state about the transaction (including the commit handling) is handled in session.

## New session origins

New connections are first established in the `server` package. After some initial protocol negotiation, the `server` package [calls](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/246c59d5c926780235dd25aef27c469ffe376e21/server/driver_tidb.go#L181-L186) `session.CreateSession()`. This function then calls `session.createSessionWithOpt()` (via `CreateSessionWithOpt()`) which creates the session.

Sessions used for internal server operations are [usually created in a different manner](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/649ed6abc9790cfdd2a17065118379d8abcc7595/executor/simple.go#L83-L93), with the sessionctx being retrieved from a pool of sessions maintained by `domain`:
```go
dom := domain.GetDomain(e.ctx)
sysSessionPool := dom.SysSessionPool()
ctx, err := sysSessionPool.Get()
if err != nil {
    return nil, err
}
restrictedCtx := ctx.(sessionctx.Context)
restrictedCtx.GetSessionVars().InRestrictedSQL = true
```

> Internal sessions will not show up in the output of `SHOW PROCESSLIST`, and because they do not have a privilege manager handle attached skip all privilege checks.

Author: I've written this a bit differently:
```
Internal sessions will not show up in the output of `SHOW PROCESSLIST`, and skip all privilege checks because they do not have a privilege manager handle attached.
```

```go
{Scope: ScopeSession, Name: TiDBGeneralLog, Value: BoolToOnOff(DefTiDBGeneralLog), Type: TypeBool, skipInit: true, SetSession: func(s *SessionVars, val string) error {
	ProcessGeneralLog.Store(TiDBOptOn(val))
	return nil
}, GetSession: func(s *SessionVars) (string, error) {
	return BoolToOnOff(ProcessGeneralLog.Load()), nil
}},
```

The decision to make an option such as `tidb_general_log` instance scoped is because it references a file on the local filesystem. This may create issues when global, as the path may not be writable on each tidb-server in the cluster.

As you can see by the `Scope: Session`, instance-scoped variables are not natively handled by the sysvar framework, but are instead denoted by the `GetSession()` function reading from a global location. The documentation for [`tidb_general_log`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/system-variables#tidb_general_log) also notes it as "instance" scoped by convention.

## Transaction state

> The `session` is responsible for keeping modified KV-pairs in an in-memory buffer until the transaction commits. A `commit` statement only sets the session variable state that it is [no longer in an active transaction](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/246c59d5c926780235dd25aef27c469ffe376e21/executor/simple.go#L701-L703):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `session` is responsible for keeping modified key-value pairs in an in-memory buffer until the transaction commits. A `commit` statement only sets the session variable state that it is [no longer in an active transaction](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/246c59d5c926780235dd25aef27c469ffe376e21/executor/simple.go#L701-L703):
```

Reviewer: where is the "in-memory buffer"? do you abstract it an interface?

Author: It's in the session struct. `s.txn` is a LazyTxn. I've added some clarifications, PTAL.

```go
func (e *SimpleExec) executeCommit(s *ast.CommitStmt) {
	e.ctx.GetSessionVars().SetInTxn(false)
}
```

The function [`autoCommitAfterStmt()`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/246c59d5c926780235dd25aef27c469ffe376e21/session/tidb.go#L242-L267) which is called as part of [`finishStmt()`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/blob/246c59d5c926780235dd25aef27c469ffe376e21/session/tidb.go#L207-L224) is responsible for committing the transaction:

```go
if !sessVars.InTxn() {
	if err := se.CommitTxn(ctx); err != nil {
		if _, ok := sql.(*executor.ExecStmt).StmtNode.(*ast.CommitStmt); ok {
			err = errors.Annotatef(err, "previous statement: %s", se.GetSessionVars().PrevStmt)
		}
		return err
	}
	return nil
}
```

> The `session.CommitTxn()` function will handle the `commit`, including retry (if permitted). There is also special handling for both pessimistic and optimistic transactions, as well as removing the KV pairs which apply to temporary tables from the transaction buffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `session.CommitTxn()` function will handle the `commit`, including retry (if permitted). There is also special handling for both pessimistic and optimistic transactions, as well as removing the key-value pairs which apply to temporary tables from the transaction buffer.
```
